=head1 NAME

B<imexam> - measure image statistics

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<imexam> I<fits.image> I<mode1[,mode2,...]> I<[reg=reg]> I<[exclreg=reg]>
I<[printbyreg=yes]> I<[clean=yes]> I<[threshold=t]>

=head1 NEWS (for version 2.1)

The user can specify the list of quantaties to extract (not just one
statistics).

=head1 DESCRIPTION	

B<imexam> extracts some image statistics either in the entire image or in a
region. Optionally, the image can be cleaned, on the by-region basis, of
strong deviations (sources).

=head1 IMAGE STATISTICS

The following image statistics can be extracted:

=over 4

=item I<sum>

=item I<mean>

=item I<errmean>  - standard dev. of the mean

=item I<median>

=item I<dispersion>

=item I<stddev>

=item I<absdev>           - average abs(x-<x>)

=item I<square>           - average x**2

=item I<sumsquare>        - sum x**2

=item I<max>

=item I<min>

=item I<value  i j>       - image value in pixel i,j

=item I<meancoords>       average x,y over the reg

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item I<[reg=reg]> - extract the statistics in the region, which can be

  1) SAOimage region file
  2) integer FITS image with values > 0 in the region of interest
  3) ZHTOOLS region file (zhhelp regions)

=item I<[excreg=reg]> - similar to I<reg=>, but this region will be excluded.

=item I<printbyreg=yes> - print the values in regions where reg==1, 
reg==2, reg==3 and so on. If printbyreg=no, which is
default, the statitics is calculated in the region reg!=0

=item I<[clean=yes]> - do some cleaning before calculations. Pixels deviating
by more than I<t> sigma (default 3, can be set by the I<threshold>
parameter) from the mean in the given region, will be discarded.

=item I<[threshold=t]> - set threshold for cleaning.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<regions>

=head1 AUTHOR

Alexey Vikhlinin <alexey@head-cfa.harvard.edu>


